Falcon UI (docs) (#115)
deity-io/falcon: packages/falcon-ui/src/theme/theme.mdx

order: 1
---

import { Playground } from 'docz';
import { ViewThemeSection, ActivateComponentFinder, Card, customizedTheme, customizedButtonTheme } from 'docs';
import { ThemeProvider, H1, H2, Button, FlexLayout } from '@deity/falcon-ui';

# Theming

## Introduction
**`@deity/falcon-ui`** ships with powerful `ThemeProvider` based theming capabilities.

> Every component has default theme build-in, providing consistent and pleasing look and feel out of the box, yet giving possibility to customize it in every detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every component has default theme built-in, providing a consistent and pleasing look and feel out of the box, yet giving a possibility to customize it in every detail.
```

## Default theme
Default theme is influenced by constraint-based design system principles, based on typographic scale and 8px grid. 
It specifies font sizes, colors, spacings as well as many other values needed for creating consistent, systematic design.
You can see all theme default values specified in [source code](https://github.com/deity-io/falcon/blob/master/packages/falcon-ui/src/theme/theme.ts), or 
<ViewThemeSection section="colors">
	Open theme editor
</ViewThemeSection>
 to view them in more visually pleasant way.

When using `ThemeProvider` without specifying theme prop, default theme is being used.

```javascript
import { ThemeProvider, Button } from '@deity/falcon-ui';

const App = (
  <ThemeProvider>
    <Button>Hello!</Button>
  </ThemeProvider>
);
```

### Additional resources
- [Constructing design system](https://medium.freecodecamp.org/how-to-construct-a-design-system-864adbf2a117)
- [8px grid system](https://builttoadapt.io/intro-to-the-8-point-grid-system-d2573cde8632)

## Customizing theme

> All theme customizations are done using `createTheme` function by providing necessary overrides and passing it's output as `theme` prop to `ThemeProvider`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All theme-related customizations are done using `createTheme` function by providing necessary overrides and passing its output as `theme` prop to `ThemeProvider`.
```

  },
  fonts: {
    sans: '"Comic Sans MS", "Comic Sans", cursive'
  }
});
```

You can play around with theme values via

<ViewThemeSection section="spacing"> Theme Editor</ViewThemeSection>

and see generated code on Theme editor's **Download** tab.

In addition to ovderriding default theme values, there is an easy way to **override each component theme**, via `components` section as shown below:

<Playground>
  <H2>Component level theme customization</H2>
  <Button mt="md">Default theme</Button>
  <ThemeProvider theme={customizedButtonTheme}>
    <Button mt="md">Custom button theme</Button>
  </ThemeProvider>
</Playground>

```javascript
import { createTheme } from '@deity/falcon-ui';

const customizedButtonTheme = createTheme({
  components: {
    button: {
      height: 'xl',
      px: 'lg',
      bg: 'transparent',
      color: 'secondaryText',
      fontWeight: 'bold',
      border: 'bold',
      borderColor: 'primary',
      borderRadius: 'round'
    }
  }
});
```
Every component accepts all of the [responsive, theme-based style props](/responsive-props) as well as [`css`](/responsive-props#css-prop) prop.

<ActivateComponentFinder />

## Custom themed components

>   In addition to build-in components there is an easy way to create custom components with default theme that also plugin-in into general theming system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In addition to built-in components, there is an easy way to create custom components with a default theme that also plugin-in into the general theming system.
```
